[Gathering all necessary components: Lists:](#gathering-all-necessary-components)
- [Gathering all necessary components:](#gathering-all-necessary-components)
  - [(Required) Pre-built components (w/ affiliate links)](#required-pre-built-components-w-affiliate-links)
  - [EXTRA](#extra)
    - [Hacking the Hardware](#hacking-the-hardware)
    - [Electronics](#electronics)


# Gathering all necessary components:
____________________________________
Before diving into the code, we need to gather all the necessary components. Let's take a look at the components you will need to build the project.



The project is designed to be a simple, easy-to-follow guide to building a DIY dashcam using a Raspberry Pi Zero. The project is aimed at beginners and hobbyists who are interested in learning relevant implementations of DIY applications. The project is designed to be a fun and engaging way to learn about these topics, and to inspire you to explore them further.
   1. Required Pre-built components (w/ affiliate links)   
   2. DIY components (w/ affiliate links) broken down by additional feature
   3. Optional components (w/ affiliate links)

## (Required) Pre-built components (w/ affiliate links)
______________
- For the basic setup, you will need the following components (required):
1. Raspberry Pi Zero W
2. Raspberry Pi Camera Module
3. Micro SD Card
4. Power Supply options (Recommend at LEAST 10ft long):
   1. USB Cable: 11 ft cable 
   2. Car adapter: usb cable (type-a to micro usb) to power Car Charger the charger adapter to power the device in the car.
   3. (advanced setup) Direct connection attached to a fuse tap to power the device in the car (not recommended for beginners due to potential damage to the car's electrical system)
5. Camera Cable: 11 ft (recommend cables at least 10ft long to hide the cables in the car)
6. Mounting options:
> Note: The mounting options are listed here. If you are going to use any adhesion based products, ensure product is top quality, ESPECIALLY if you plan to stick the car windshield glass as it will be against gravity and could fall off and damage the camera or car.

   1. Suction cup mount (known as a windshield mount)
   2. Adhesive mount
   3. Tripod mount
   4. (recommended) Front Mirror attachment mount (see 5.0-remixing-pi-dash.md for more details)
   5. 3D printed case (see optional section for more details)

1.  11 ft (recommend cables at least 10ft long to hide the cables in the car) 








## EXTRA
___________________
(Optional) components (w/ affiliate links) based on a possible solution to common problem:

Problem: Improved cooling and performance
Solution: Add a fan to the Raspberry Pi Zero to improve cooling and performance. This will help prevent the Raspberry Pi Zero from overheating and improve its performance.

    1. Fan
    2. Heat Sink
    3. Metal Case

Problem: need visual testing and debugging recordings
Solution: Add a monitor to the Raspberry Pi Zero to view the recordings and debug the code. This will help you see what the Raspberry Pi Zero is recording and debug any issues with the code.

    1. Monitor
    2. HDMI Cable
    3. USB to HDMI Adapter

Problem: Manual recording and offline transfer of videos
Solution: Add push buttons and a switch to the Raspberry Pi Zero to manually record and transfer videos offline. This will allow you to manually record videos and transfer them to a storage device without an internet connection.

    1. Push Buttons
    2. Switch
    3. Resistors
    4. Wires


Problem: For offline transfer of videos with a button to turn off/on(optional)
Solution: Add a battery to the Raspberry Pi Zero to transfer videos offline with a button to turn off/on. This will allow you to transfer videos to a storage device without an internet connection and turn off the Raspberry Pi Zero when not in use.

    1. Battery
    2. Battery Charger
    3. Voltage Regulator
    4. Switch
    5. Jumper Wires
    6. (optional) Breadboard
    7. pi Zero hat for pinout expansion


Problem: For transferring files to a personal cloud or storage device(optional)
Solution: Add a USB drive to the Raspberry Pi Zero to transfer files to a personal cloud or storage device. This will allow you to store your recordings on a USB drive and transfer them to a personal cloud or storage device.

    1. USB Drive
    2. USB Data Transfer Cable
    3. USB Hub


Problem: For sending files to a server or external USB(optional)
Solution: Add a WiFi adapter to the Raspberry Pi Zero to send files to a server or external USB. This will allow you to send your recordings to a server or external USB without an internet connection.

    1. USB WiFi Adapter for Raspberry Pi zero
    2. Wifi extender
    3. USB Data Transfer Cable


Let's now take a look at our second step: [Assembling and gathering components](../../Software/2.0_Configuring-The-RPI-Image.md)


### Hacking the [Hardware]()
Here are some options for hacking the hardware of the project:
- Adding LED lights to create Pi-Dash heartbeats for is testing and debugging
- Adding a battery to make the device temporary portable in your car
- Adding a button to start and stop recording
- Adding a screen to display the current recording time
- Adding a GPS module to record the location of the videos


### Electronics

The electronics for the pi dash are designed to be as flexible and hackable as possible. It is based around a single through-hole prototyping board which can be assembled easily by hand. This board connects to the GPIO or via micro usb to a charger that outputs steady voltage/current to ensure your rpi doesn't break or slow down in recording while driving. The board is designed to be easy to modify, so that you can add or remove components as needed. The electronics are designed to be easy to assemble and disassemble, so that you can easily access the components inside.