Before diving into the code, we need to gather all the necessary components. This includes the hardware, software, and tools that we will be using to build our project. In this section, we will outline the components that we need and how to obtain them. If you already have some of the components, please ensure you have all the required components in the first section before proceeding with the project.



## Hardware Components
The hardware components that we will need for this project will be organized in the following categories. The categories are as follows:

1. Required Pre-built components (w/ affiliate links)   
2. DIY components (w/ affiliate links) broken down by additional feature
3. Optional components (w/ affiliate links)

### (Required) Pre-built components (w/ affiliate links)
- For the basic setup, you will need the following components (required):
1. Raspberry Pi Zero W
2. Raspberry Pi Camera Module
3. Micro SD Card
4. Power Supply options (Recommend at LEAST 10ft long):
   1. USB Cable: 11 ft cable 
   2. Car adapter: usb cable (type-a to micro usb) to power Car Charger the charger adapter to power the device in the car.
   3. (advanced setup) Direct connection attached to a fuse tap to power the device in the car (not recommended for beginners due to potential damage to the car's electrical system)
5. Camera Cable: 11 ft (recommend cables at least 10ft long to hide the cables in the car)
6. Mounting options:
> Note: The mounting options are listed here. If you are going to use any adhesion based products, ensure product is top quality, ESPECIALLY if you plan to stick the car windshield glass as it will be against gravity and could fall off and damage the camera or car.

   1. Suction cup mount (known as a windshield mount)
   2. Adhesive mount
   3. Tripod mount
   4. (recommended) Front Mirror attachment mount (see 5.0-remixing-pi-dash.md for more details)
   5. 3D printed case (see optional section for more details)

1.  11 ft (recommend cables at least 10ft long to hide the cables in the car) 

- Recommended components listed by additional feature(optional):

- Improved cooling and performance:
1. Fan
2. Heat Sink
3. Metal Case

- For visual testing and debugging recordings(optional):
1. LED Lights
2. Breadboard
3. Jumper Wires
4. Resistors

- For manual recording and offline transfer of videos(optional):
1. Push Buttons
2. Switch
3. resistors
4. wires

- For offline transfer of videos with a button to turn off/on(optional):

1. Battery
2. Battery Charger
3. Voltage Regulator
4. Switch
5. Jumper Wires
6. (optional) Breadboard
7. pi Zero hat for pinout expansion

- For transferring files to a personal cloud or storage device(optional):
> Note: The data drive should be at least 32GB to store a few hours of video. If you plan to store more, consider a larger drive. Keep in mind that larger drives will require more power to operate, so ensure you have a power supply that can handle the drive.
1. USB Drive
2. USB Data Transfer Cable
3. USB Hub 


- For connecting to the internet and transfering files via wifi when at home (optional):
4. USB WiFi Adapter for Raspberry Pi zero
5. Wifi extender

- For connecting to a monitor(optional):
1. USB to HDMI Adapter
2. HDMI Cable
3. Monitor


### Optional DIY Tools I used

8. Voltage Regulator
9.  Battery Pack and Charger
10. USB Cable
- For the optional setup in case you want to skip some steps and ensure already enhanced, you will need the following components (optional):
1. Metal Case (with heat sink) for high temperature environments
2. Battery Pack and Charger
3. pi Zero hat for pinout expansion

4.  

### DIY components

- For trying to set up external buttons for manual recording, you will need the following electronics:

1. Jumper Wires
2. Breadboard
3. Resistors
4. LEDs
5. Push Buttons

- For setting up a battery for offline transfer of videos with a button to turn off/on, you will need the following electronics:
- Battery
- Battery Charger
- Voltage Regulator
- Switch
- Jumper Wires
- Breadboard (optional)

- For setting up your own case, you will need the following tools:
1. 3D Printer
2. Filament

- For setting up your own PCB connections to a pi hat, you will need the following tools:

1. Soldering Iron
2. Solder
3. Heat Shrink Tubing
4. Wire Cutters
5. Wire Strippers
6. pi Zero hat for pinout expansion

For my project, it cost about $20 to build the basic setup, with the assumption you already have a zero or a zero w. The cost may vary depending on the components you choose and where you purchase them from. You can find the BOM (Bill of Materials) in the repository for a more detailed list of components I used in my project.
<!-- 
TODO: 
CREATE BOM LINK
-->
Also, feel free to check out my list of DIY tools I used for the project. I have included the tools I used to build the project, as well as some additional tools that experienced makers may find useful. You can find the list of tools in this link.

<!-- 
TODO: CREATE LINK FOR LIST OF TOOLS
-->